---
tags: 
Sermon/speech: Sermon
date_made: 07-01-2024
Date Delivered: 2024-07-06
---

# How to get what you want out of life 

---
##### Scriptural text: 
>[!Quote]+ Psalm 34:7
> Delight yourself also in the Lord, And He shall give you the desires of your heart.

---
>[!abstract]+
>When you think about being a christian, what comes to mind? No doubt, theres the common cliches. Denying your flesh. Bearing your cross. Repentance. Living a life free of sin. Prayer. Reading the Bible. But why don't we ever think of success? Why don't we think of living a life that demands the attention of others? Why don't we think of living a life like David, who as a boy was anointed to be king. Abraham, who was exceedingly wealthy. Solomon, who was divinely wise. Samuel who was the voice of God to His people. Why does it seem, why does it feel like God doesn't do these things anymore in the life of a believer? We live in a world where being a Christian is advertised as this boring, mundane, weak lifestyle and living in the world is the adventure (Ecclesiastes - the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer.). But what if we have it all wrong? what if there is no greater adventure, no greater success story, no greater journey, than that taken with God?  What if I told you that God was not only able to give you everything you wanted? But that he is waiting on you to give it to you. using my testimony and the story of Abraham, I will unpack success as it relates to Christianity. 
>>[!info]+ Abstract
>>abstract
>>>[!faq]+ Ideas to include
>>> 1)  Tom Brady story. 
>>> 	1) Money does not buy happiness, it just affords a different brand of misery. 
>>> 	2) We don't really want money, we all crave something deeper. The security that we feel money can buy. The empty love that sex and relationships can make us feel. The numbing that we substitute for peace that drugs and alcohol make us feel. 
>>> 	3) Without Jesus, we often spend our time distracting ourselves from the emptiness inside of us with superficial things. many of us cant get through the day without music because we cant bear the sound of our own thoughts. We distract ourselves with romance, drugs, sex, tv, mindless entertainment, ANYTHING to keep us from having enough time to actually *feel* anything. And thats how the devil works. he doesn't have to destroy you, he just has to distract you. He doesn't have to convince you that Jesus isn't real, He just has to keep you busy enough so that you never experience just *how real* He is. He knows that you're much to smart to believe that there's no God. So what He does is he distracts you. He makes you too busy to pray. he makes you too stimulated to sit down with your Bible. and he gets you to a point where when you think about Jesus, it all just sounds like some crazy outlandish fairytale.
>>> 		1) Let me ask you a question though, if it was indeed some make believe fairytale, would generations of people die for it?  But let me ask you, if it was all a fairytale, would all almost all of jesus apostles suffer gruesome deaths? would ancient christians allow themselves to be eaten by lions, would Jon Huss, a christian reformer sing Psalms while being burned at the stake FOR A FAIRYTALE? The Bible is real. Whats in it Has true power. Wars have been fought over the contents of this book. People have died protecting the veracity of this book. In parts of the world right now, this book is **illegal**. Please, take a look inside. Read the transformative power of the gospel and look and see, that deep down inside, we all crave something deeper. Like trying to grasp sand, we crave something the we can only hold with an open hand. 
>>> 	4) We need to get inside of our hearts to know what it is we truly want. And that is where our search for success begins. Not out there (the world) , but in here(the heart). 
>>> 2) Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. What does that mean? (verse in John)
>> >	1) 
>> >3) Success has more to do with who God has called you to be than what He has called you to do. 
>> >4) Success comes when we stop chasing it and start choosing christ
>> >	1) Chase not choose
>> >5) When we delight ourselves in Christ, He opens His mind to ours and grants us the deepest desires of our heart. 
>> >6) He wants to give it to us, but He cannot give us any of these things (fruits of the spirit) outside of Him because He *is* those things. 
>> >7) But if you chase God, you'll get Him, and with him, everything you ever could have wanted. 
>>>>[!Success]+ conclusion


You know, when I was asked to speak (and thank you by the way, Pastor Ross family for extending the invitation) my first thought was to choose either what Bible story I would speak from, or what life experience I would speak from. I couldn't decide, so I settled on both.

Talk about the title, introduce your topic, do a little crowd engagement. Ask them what they think of when they hear the word surrender. 

**Start out by thanking Church, pastor, and family**


I want to start out by saying that I have the best parents in the world. Not that your parents aren't great, i'm sure you think they are, but MINE are the best. I don't know how they did it, how they figured out parenting when they found out that they were going to have three babies at once. I don't know how they managed to *afford it*, can you imagine? but they did it, and they did it well, and to God be the glory. 
My siblings and I aren't supposed to be here, we were born under extremely tenuous circumstances and without going into the details, as that is a story for another time, my mom made a promise to God that if He gave her all three of her babies in healthy condition, she would return them to him through christian education. My parents are amazing. 
Now i'm not just saying this because they're my parents, I mean, I did have an interesting relationship with them growing up. But that does tend to happen when you're a mischievous child. I wasn't necessarily evil, you know I wasn't breaking and entering or anything crazy, I was just really really sneaky. And I thought my parents weren't smart enough to figure it out either. You know, I was the type of child who would sneak into the pantry, close the door, turn off the lights, and then try and eat as much of the lemonade mix as I could. The pantry door would fly open, and my dad would be standing there staring at me, lemonade mix all over my mouth, powder all over the floor and when he would ask me what I was doing, I would say "nothing...I'm not doing anything..." And of course I would get in trouble for lying, but for some reason, I never let that stop me from trying to keep testing the boundaries. Now here it is, heres why I say that I have the parents in the world: 

They saw the way I was, and instead of trying to change me or get me to stop, they realized that I was just a curious child, and they put a book in my hand, and every opportunity they got, they took my siblings and I to the museums and they freed me to learn. And I did, I learned about George Washington, and the space program and native Americans, the History of America, the history of African Americans and so many things. And that changed my life. And I want to encourage you church, instead of being judgmental, learn to be curious. People often aren't bad inherently, it’s the spirit thats behind them. **Galatians 5:16 says: *walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh.*** And so often times, when we meet people who are hurting and broken, the solution is not to chastise them or tell them they're going to hell or to hit them over the head with the Bible. People know that stealing is wrong. They know that lust is evil. We know what lying does to the soul. and so when you meet people who are hurting and broken, remember this, that your hand follows your heart, and that if you really want someone to change for the better, its not about forcing their hand, but helping their heart. My parents understood that and so along with the museums and the books, they introduced us to Bible history, not stories, because stories connotate fiction, but Bible history at a young age. and along with George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, we learned about Moses and Samuel, and Samson, and Jesus Christ. 
 And so it was on this foundation that my life was built on. On history, and science, and the Bible and wonder. And this important for you to know because I want to tell you a story this morning. It’s not a long story, it’s actually quite short. I've never shared this story on a stage, and unfortunately I wont be sharing the full story today, but I will share part of it. and I hope that after hearing it, you will be convinced that my method of how to get what you want in life works better than anything you've ever heard. Better than any speech or podcast. Because not only will my method get you what you want, it will get you the things that you didn't know you wanted as well.

If you’re with me, say Amen. 

When I was sixteen years old, I heard about the United States Naval Academy and the United States Military Academy for the first time. For those of you who don't know, The naval academy or "the academy" and most people call it is a naval military school in Annapolis Maryland and the united states military academy, or Westpoint as it is called is an army military school in Westpoint, New York. When I heard about those schools, I was set. I remember distinctly telling myself that I am either going to The Academy, Westpoint, or MIT. Clearly none of those things happened because I currently attend Oakwood university. Now this is the part of the story where I skip over a large portion not because it’s not important, but because what it taught me is even more so. You see the foundation that I told all of you about, that foundation of history and science and greatness and wonder, created this thing in me that was attracted to prestige. I liked big names and lights and the razzle dazzle of things, and I was, to be honest, distracted by a lot of it. 

Prestige is an interesting word, when you consider its history. the origin of the word finds its roots in the beginning of the 16th century and when the word was used back then, its original meaning was “of, relating to, or marked by illusion, conjuring, or trickery.” The word's meaning shifted later in in the 20<sup>th</sup> century, but that definition haunts me. The original meaning of the word was deceit…that’s what the word meant. The very thing that so many youth of today are attracted to was originally used to describe the illusion that magicians would employ to deceive others, a lot like what Lucifer does. When I was writing this, my parents asked why I used the name Lucifer instead of Satan. I told them that as Christians, names relate to identity and it’s important to understand that Lucifer is not a red horned demon that haunts you at night. He is a fallen angel, thus he is probably beautiful, and resplendent, and he is no doubt, excellent at imitating Jesus. The trap that I fell into is exactly by nature who Lucifer is, something that appears beautiful but is actually very bad for you. And what I want to submit to you that while the meaning of the word prestige has changed, the deception behind the word hasn't. The chase for money, for wealth, for fame and for glory is all an illusion, that once you step out onto the other side, you will realize. But by then, it will too late because you would have fallen for it. And so many of us fall for it, and it’s ok, I did too.
(Talk about Gregory Allens class)
Let me get the record straight, prestige and notoriety is not evil in and of itself, but the idolatry of it is. and unfortunately, the way that prestige is set up, its almost designed to be worshipped. It's exclusiveness by nature, the fact that it seems that only the elite can make it, and the fact it seems to open so many doors for you. And thats what I thought, that if I go to these schools, opportunities are going to open up for me, and my path so success will be so much clearer. Before I continue, I want to say that each and every one of you should pursue the very best and highest goal that you can set your mind on. Don't worship it, don't idolize it, but you owe it to yourself and to God to do the very best you can do with your life. Christians are not called to be mediocre, Jesus did not die so we could live defeated lives. Pursue greatness. 

At any rate, I remember one day, coming home from school and getting a call from my recruiting officer at westpoint and being notified that I had received a letter of assurance which is essentially a promissory note stating that as long as you complete the final requirements, we are saving a spot for you in the oncoming class, and I remember going to my dad and walking into his office and with a HUGE smile on my face, I told him the good news. He looked at me, not even a hint of a smile on his face, and told me that I would not be going to westpoint. I was angry, I was hurt, I felt so defeated. At this time, I am a senior in highschool, and I'm not ashamed to say that I cried. The application to admission timeline for this school can take almost a year and a half and that is how long I had been working to get in. Acing every exam, keeping myself in incredible shape so that I could pass their very demanding physical. Making sure that I turned in every piece of material that I needed to so that I could get in. All that just for my dad to tell me that he was not going to send me there. 

**Psalm 127: 1 says 
*Unless the Lord builds the house,  
They labor in vain who build it;  
Unless the Lord guards the city,  
The watchman stays awake in vain.*** 

Looking back, I can see how easy it is to establish your own goals or pursue your own things in life without laboring with God. We pursue things that we think we like or we think were good at and then we wonder why the door closes. 

I want to stop here and highlight this point for a second because 
- relationships
- Career goals 
- Majors and minors 

And so it came as a struggle when I decided that I would keep going with the naval academy instead, and my parents told me that the last part of the application that I needed to complete - the medical portion - they wouldnt take me to the doctor to complete it. And I couldnt drive. So you can imagine my surprise when the surgeon general of the school called me and told me that I didn't have to worry about any of that, that he would wave my medical application until after I had been accepted and that I would be able to attend the school. 

This is God is said, this is God's plan for my life. 

a month later, I was at oakwood for my first day of school. and honestly, I was angry. Yes, I was optimistic, yes, I wanted to make the most of my opportunity but I was angry that I was at oakwood. I felt it was... beneath me. looking back, I think thats the exact reason God wanted me there. He had some humbling to do. Its ironic isn't it, How Jesus has a habit of using humble people from humble beginnings to do his world changing work.  

This isnt the full story, that would take another hour for me to tell, but I want to share some things that God taught me through this experience. The first is that Jesus has a habit of taking you low before he brings you high. I share this as encouragement because I've noticed that often times when you begin to take your walk with God seriously, it seems like life almost gets harder. Friends leave, doors slam shut in your face. It almost feels like God is against you. But I can assure you that that is not what is happening. Often times, when we submit our lives to God, what he has to do is tear down the foundation that we ourselves have built in order to build His. And sometimes yea, that looks like friends leaving and doors closing. Sometimes it feels lonely and confusing, almost as if everything you thought you knew, now you dont know. Going to the naval academy, I knew I wanted to become a fighter pilot and eventually an astronaut. At oakwood I didn't know what to study. I felt lost and confused. I desperately wish someone would have been there to tell me that when Jesus puts you through the fire, he's not burning you, he's purifying you. And if you can withstand the heat, eventually you'll come out, like gold. That first semester of college, I had never felt more surrounded by people but lonely at the same time. I was lost and I was confused. 

(Use examples like Abraham and Davids anointing, 
We think God has abandoned us when really, he’s just building us. )
(I started working out with my parents story. )

I got to such a low point that semester that I turned to God, and I prayed. I heard this quote from the pastor at oakwood once, and he said that sometimes, Jesus makes our burdens too heavy for us to bear because He knows that it will lead us to the foot of the cross. 
Well thats where my burdens led me. Unhappy, lonely, angry, and even doubting in the sovereignty of God, I prayed. 

"are you happy?" I said. "I came to your school, I honored my moms promise, I did all the right things. Why do I feel this way?" and in that moment, it came to me. HE.. came to me. He said *"if all you have is me, you have all you need.* And in that moment, i surrendered. I gave it all up. I unfollowed the naval academy online, I let go of what I thought my life SHOULD have been. Not because I wanted to, but because it was too painful to hold onto. Like Lot's wife, I was paralyzed because I kept looking back, and I couldn't see where God was taking me. 

And that’s some of us in this room. We’re like the Israelites when God delivered them from Egypt. And when we find ourselves in the desert we start to long for the very thing that we BEGGED God to deliver us from. 

and so I let go of everything. The happiest of my days were when I would wake up and I would spend time with Jesus. If you had of told me that that was the key to happiness six months ago, i would have laughed at you. 

It sounds so corny, but I promise you, its true. Jesus cannot give you joy and happiness and peace apart from himself because He is those things. And the more and more time I spent with Jesus, the more humble I became. I stopped caring about prestige. I stopped caring about money. This may sound very anti society but I stopped caring my goals. 
(Sometimes we worship our goals…we use God as an accessory to our life when it should be the other way around).
The only thing that mattered to me was Jesus. He has a way of doing that you know. Its like when you take a sip of a really good drink, and before you know it, the entire bottle is gone. (I’m sure you can relate with startbucks mom.) He tastes that good. As it says in John 4:14 when Jesus is speaking to the Samaritan woman, His water is water that will quench the thirst of your soul. And many of our souls are dying of thirst.

The world, and especially our generation, is more depressed, sad, confused, anxious, and lonely than ever. We fill those holes with things like sex and drugs, or we drown the emptiness out with music and lust and tv and getting high. and it sounds so corny, and it sounds so weak and so feeble and honestly probably too good to be true, but Jesus Christ... He is the answer. 
And if you dont think it’s real, if you don't think what I am telling you works, look around you. In China and Africa, Christians are being persecuted. Almost all of Jesus disciplies and the early christian church were murdered or martyred for the cause of Christ. Do you think people would have endured being burnt alive, crucified upside down, skinned alive, fed to lions, boiled alive...for something that wasn't true? What kind of power can move someone to endure such hell on earth. And the man behind all of this existed 6,000 years ago. That is the power of the Holy Spirit. and it's available to you. If you want it. 

After that first semester I had come home and my parents were upset with me because I had barely called. My mom asked what I was going to do differently when I has returned second semester and I told her that I would give it a shot. And I did. 

Ever since being at oakwood, I've gotten my scuba licence, I'm working on getting my pilots licence, Ive been given leadership positions, I've met government officials and high ranking people, I've made friends will endure with me to the grave, and then ascend with me into heaven, and I have been afforded the opportunity to eventually speak to hundreds of people. I don't say this to brag, I say it because it's everything I thought I would get from going to the naval academy. I want to make three simple points, then I will take my seat. 

What do I want you to take away from this story? 
1. You dont know what you really want. 
I know there's someone hearing this right now and thinking to themselves, what is this guy talking about, of course I know what I want. And to that I say, how? If you've never had what you want before, how do you know that you want it? You just like the idea of it. Whether it's a future career, or a guy or a girl or a school, you don't know what you want until you have it. And by then it's usually too late. The irony of all this is, there is one person who knows exactly what you want. And not on the surface, but in your heart. He knows what will excite you, what will get you out of bed every morning, what you need in a husband or wife, and thats God. 

So the first thing I want you to know is that if you want to get what you want out of life, learn to acknowledge that only God knows what that is. I thought I wanted to go to a prestigious school, I thought I wanted certain relationships to work out that didn't. And looking back, I am glad that none of those things worked out the way I wanted them to. This leads me to point number two which is 
2. When you realize that you don't know what you want, you have to surrender your life to the one being who does. When I say surrender, I don't mean to just pray and say the right words. I mean, your heart has to get to a place where if Jesus gave you nothing outside of a relationship with Him, you would be content. And that, for many of us, is a very difficult pill to swallow. Because we've been conditioned to associate surrender with loss, it's difficult for us to understand that when we surrender everything to Jesus, we actually gain. 

Similarly to the word “prestige” the meaning of the word “surrender” changes when we’re talking about Jesus. When it comes worldly thinking, we often thing of waving the white flag or giving up. And especially if you’re an athlete or competitive, we’ve been conditioned to look at surrender as a sign of weakness. We would rather lose everything than surrender. 
	Do you see how that might be a problem when it comes to Christianity? Many of us would rather lose everything surrender to Jesus. We would rather watch our relationships burn to the ground, we would rather let depression and anxiety take over our lives than we would give up to Jesus. That’s a major problem and it’s why, unfortunately, so many people become Christian and then say it doesn’t work. And they’re right, it doesn’t work. You have to work. You have to let go. Christianity has no power in your life if you are not willing to give everything up for Jesus. That’s where the transformation happens. Look at Jesus’ interaction with almost every person he met. All the disciples gave up their careers to follow Jesus. 
	Now to put this in context, imagine going home to your husband or wife, and you’re the breadwinner of your household, and you say to them “hey baby, I quit my job today. I’m gonna follow this homeless street preacher who is calling himself the son of man. HOW CRAZY DOES THAT SOUND! THATS SURRENDER. 
	Now an example of someone who didn’t surrender was the rich young ruler. And many of us read that story and we almost mock him as if we wouldn’t do the same. Take the same example from before. Now imagine a homeless man who is calling himself the son of God comes to you and tells you to sell your house. Sell your car. And then empty out your bank account and give to everyone. And then go be homeless with him. Would you do it? It’s crazy because that’s what surrender is. It says that nothing is more important to me than a relationship with Christ, even if he called to follow him into homelessness. 
	
	we’re getting radical right now aren’t we…
	Lord knows I pray against that every day. 
	Im not the one father…that’s not me God 
		
	How do you surrender to God? you get to a point where you understand that He does not call us to chase, He calls us to choose. Whatever we want after, we worship. If we want after goals, and money and relationships, we'll worship them. If we want after God, we'll worship Him. I want you understand that It's not bad to want any of those things. Trust me, daily, I ask God to bless me financially. Its to want *after* those things that is bad. You see to want something is to have an internal desire. To want after something is to have an internal desire that produces action. So how do you surrender to God? You stop chasing anything thats not Him, you chase Him, and Him alone, and you trust that if it's its for you, God will lead you too it. Choose, not chase. When we chase God, He gives us options that are from him, and we get to choose, 
3. And lastly, If you get what you want out of life, the last thing you have to do is work as hard as you can. There's this idea in a lot of christian communities that "if God wont do it, it wont get done." No, that's not how it works. Nothing works, if you don't. I believe that Christians are supposed to be the hardest working people on the planet. When you look at the parable of the servants and the talents, the master was angry with the servant who was lazy and did no work. We often use our christianity as an excuse for laziness when in reality it should be the other way around. Our inherent laziness in our flesh should be the reason we need Christ. I hate to be this guy, but sometimes, it's not that Jesus did not want you to pass that test, sometimes it’s just that you failed to study. Sometimes its not that the relationship wasn't from God, sometimes its that you were playing games. Sometimes, its not that the employer was racist or overlooked you, you just didn't prepare for the interview. And I need us to understand that while God can open the door for you in your life, He cannot and will not force you to walk through. 

~~We often take the idea of living like Christ to mean that Jesus endorses poverty and that wealth is bad. It’s not. We Need to understand that just because someone is blessed does mean that they sold their souls to get it and just because some one is poor, does not mean that they don’t work hard. Wealth and building wealth is an interesting topic and not one that I am going to go into today, But God is not trapped inside of an economic statu~~s. 



And so you've heard my method. You've heard my story. If you want to get what you want in life, acknowledge that you don't know what you want, surrender to God, and when God opens a door in your life, work like your future depends on it because it does. And before I enter into my closing statements, theres one more thing that I want to say and that is that often times, we as christians tend to act as if God is going to call us to do something that we do not care for. Brothas and sisters, God knows that you will be ineffective if you are not passionate about what it is He is calling you to do. He knows that if your true desire is to be an artist, you will not best serve Him as an accountant. He has placed those desire in your heart for a reason, and He plans to use them. So do not for an instant thing that surrendering to God means that He will take away or deny you the opportunity to use those gifts that He has given you. 

So did I get what I wanted? Long story short, yes. God has been so good to me. I've had the opportunity to travel the country and out of the country for free. I've had the opportunity to speak. I pay little to nothing to go to college, and I have been afforded opportunity after opportunity to do things that set my soul on fire, all because I chose to delight myself in the Lord. and out of love for me, He granted me the desire of my heart. In my basement, in a room that I like to call my reading room, on a bookshelf, next to an autographed picture of an astronaut, stands my acceptance letter to the naval academy. It's beautiful. It comes in a folder, with the acceptance letter written in beautiful calligraphy. In my opinion, the epitome of prestige. Whether that is glory or deceit, that is up to you to decide. But one thing do I know, and you cannot convince me of this otherwise. Everytime that I look at the photo of that astronaut and the acceptance letter into that institution, I thank the Lord that I did not get my way, but His way. Getting accepted into that school opened so many doors for me, and I wish I could tell you how Jesus used all of that story to open opportunities for me in life. Do I still want to be an astronaut, and do a lot of other amazing things? absolutely. But if in my pursuit of Christ, chasing that goal draws me away from Him and His plan, I know that not only is not good for me, but that I don't really want it. That whatever it is I really want, is later on down the path of my pursuit of Christ. So how do you get get what you really want in life? I hope the scripture text makes a lot more sense now, because that’s it, thats the key:

Psalm 34:7, delight yourself in the Lord, and He shall give you the desires of your heart, because when you get Jesus, with Him, you have everything else. 

Amen.

~~Insert story of Abraham somewhere~~

>[!warning]+ Appeal
>I want to make an appeal. If you know that there is something in your life that is more important to you than Jesus Christ, and you want to surrender that thing to God, just come to the front. The devil dines on what we withhold from God. If you are holding onto something. Whether it be a desire for a relationship or a current relationship, career goals, or maybe even holding onto the search for peace or happiness. And you want to say to Jesus, if you are all I have, then I have enough, just come to the front of the sanctuary. 


